I entered web development from
the desktop programming world as
sort of a general contractor, and
I would step in as the tech co founder for
entrepreneurs that maybe
didn't know a developer.
They didn't swim in those circles.
And oftentimes I would be the person
who would take their idea and
implement the first version
of their product for them.
And SEO is incredibly important
when you're just trying
to sort of make your first,
impression on people and
I went from there to after
a couple jobs working at Yahoo,
where I was the UI architect for
their ads and data division.
And there I saw SEO from a different
angle, the sort of the inorganic
side of things, as I helped them
build out their new ad platform.
And, there, I got an inside view in terms
of how these different ad platforms,
slice up audiences so
that they can help companies
target exactly who they're after.
So I'm gonna share some of those first
insights I have from from the inside,
about the ad world.
And then today I am a full
time developer trainer.
I spend a lot of my time working with big
tech companies, one of which is LinkedIn,
where I am responsible for training all
of their front end engineers of three or
400 of them at this point and
ever growing.
And and one of the areas that we're
very focused on there is how do
we make sure that when people share
things, the the experience for
people that see that shared URL
is as rich as possible, right.
So I'm sure that some of you realize that
if you share links for some websites
on Facebook or on LinkedIn or on Twitter
or even on like Slack and iMessage now,
sometimes you get a very vanilla
experience, where it's just the URL.
And sometimes you see some
nice imagery and a title and
a description pop up often
in like a rich tile.
So we're gonna talk about today
the most current best practices for
doing that kind of thing and making it so
that when you do get seen and
when you are shared,
you are putting your best foot forward.
So what I'm showing you today is recent as
of this January, so just a few months ago.
And it's gonna be the most.
I've refreshed all my content just for
this class.
So it's gonna be the most up to date, SEO,
crash course that I could possibly
give you at this point in time.
And with that, I will kick things off.
So in terms of how the day
is going to be structured,
we're going to divide it into four topics.
We'll begin with an overview
of traditional SEO.
So this will, sort of be the the,
the softer side of SEO in terms of like
it being the less technical stuff.
We'll talk about finding keywords.
What you can do if you sort of run to
the equivalent of writer's block where you
can't you might know what your business
is all about but you can't be wanna find
like 300 keywords and you just you
blank out after a couple dozen.
How do you expand that?
What are the tools?
How do you identify which are the good
keywords that are that are valuable for
your business to invest in versus others
and we will cover in traditional SEO,
the most basic metadata that
you can put in your HTML.
And I lump it into traditional SEO
because this will cover the stuff
that has been around for
about 10 years or more.
Then after that,
we will move on to structured data And
this is the kind of thing that
enriches links when they're shared and
enriches search results when they
show up as something that's relevant.
So not only do we have things like
Facebook, Open Graph and Twitter cards,
we're gonna touch on some
Pinterest rich tile metadata.
But Google is using schema.org
structured data to enrich
search results whenever they show up.
So more than ever,
we have control over how our search
result is rendered in the search engine.
And it's not just Google.
All of the search engines
are rallying around the same
community approach to doing this and
an investment and
learning how to leverage this kind of
data pays dividends in multiple ways.
For example, even in HTML emails,
you might notice that if you use Gmail,
some certain buttons show up on the right
side of those received emails that say,
view this airline ticket or when you
get a calendar invite you can RSVP,
like right in the header of the email.
This is all schema.org structured data.
So mastering this and
getting a handle on sort of what works and
how far to go without spending
all day building metadata.
That is a great skill to have and
it is a great way to stand out as a,
as a high tech, sort of modern and
polished company among your competitors,
right.
It's it's one of these things where you
might be sending the first email or
your customer gets this fancy new button.
And they could assume this person
has a special relationship with
Google in order to get
this enriched thing.
So we'll go over metadata and in depth and
we will actually end up taking
sort of an optimized website.
And deploying it.
And we'll get some hands on experience
using some tools that can help
you identify like how your metadata
is seen by the various people.
You should care about Facebook,
Twitter, Google, and so on.
Then we'll move on to
mobile optimizations.
So being friendly to mobile devices having
a web presence that is a good experience
on a mobile device is increasingly
important for two reasons.
One is that mobile traffic has long
ago eclipsed desktop, web traffic.
But also now you get penalized
in Google's mobile index if you
offer a subpar mobile experience.
So you'll actually get dinged
if you don't at least adhere to
the minimum level of
an acceptable mobile experience.
So it's not just.
It's not just that, you could stand out,
you can actually suffer and you could
suppress your organic search, ranking by
not following some of the best practices.
So we'll make sure no one who watches
this class falls into that category.
And in fact,
we'll do some things that might make
you stand out amongst your competitors.
In terms of being rated more highly for
mobile friendliness.
Finally we're going to round out
the day doing some work with
accelerated mobile pages or AMP pages.
So this is a new open source
technology that allows you to render
articles In a way where search engines can
offer a really fast loading experience.
So if you have used Google recently,
and you see news articles pop
up at the very top of your feed,
that's prime real estate right there.
You can tap these articles and
it will be a nearly instant experience as
that article is loaded on your device.
So we're gonna build
one of these ourselves.
There are some different rules we have to
play by that are important in terms of how
they're able to get these
things to work so fast.
But this is another way where if you
offer an AMP page as part of your
web presence, now you're eligible
to be in that that Carousel
of The content right at
the top of the search results.
Right?
So, this is something that,
even amongst organic SEO search results,
you can stand out by being at the very,
very top and being displayed as richly as
possible, and as prominently as possible,
which is what this is all about.